Add Redis docs (#10693)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/database-access/guides/redis.mdx

---
title: Database Access with Redis
description: How to configure Teleport Database Access with Redis.
---

<Details
  title="Version warning"
  opened={true}
  scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}
  scopeOnly={true}
  min="9.0"
>
  Database access for Redis is available starting from Teleport `9.0`.
</Details>

This guide will help you to:

- Install and configure Teleport.

> - Configure mutual TLS authentication between Teleport and your Redis database.

Reviewer: I only have some brief firsthand experience with Redis, but I usually see it described as an in-memory data store rather than a database. Does "database" refer to a specific configuration of Redis, or can this guide also apply to Redis when configured as a cache (i.e. with `maxmemory` and  eviction policies set), or even other possibilities like Redis streams?

In other words, would it make more sense to just say "Redis" or "your Redis deployment," rather than "your Redis database"?

Author: I think that "Redis" makes sense in most places. I was thinking about using "Redis instance" as this is confusing when referring to Redis in cluster.

- Connect to Redis database through Teleport.

## Prerequisites

- Teleport version `9.0` or newer.
- Redis database (standalone or cluster) version `6.0` or newer.
- `redis-cli` installed and added to your system's `PATH` environment variable.

<Admonition type="note" title="Note">
  Redis `7.0` and RESP3 (REdis Serialization Protocol) are currently not supported.
</Admonition>

## Step 1/5. Set up Teleport Auth and Proxy

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/start-auth-proxy.mdx!)

## Step 2/5. Create a Teleport user

> (!docs/pages/includes/database-access/create-user.mdx!)

Reviewer: I think we need to copy the partial into this page and modify it, since there's a lot that doesn't apply to Redis.

Author: Which parts do you think should be altered?

Reviewer: Looking at this again, saying "a lot" was probably misleading. The part that throws me is that there's an example of updating the user's `traits` to include all `db_names`, followed by an `Admonition` that "The `db_names` property only has effect on PostgreSQL and MongoDB database engines." Is the idea here that if this user were to also access Postgres/Mongo, they could view all database names for those servers?

Author: Yes, this trait allows you to connect to all databases and all names/schemas etc. I think it's worth to keep that note, otherwise someone can be suprised by the fact that `db_names` doesn't apply to Redis.

> ## Step 3/5. Create Redis users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 3/5. Create Redis users
```

> Redis user must be protected by a strong password. We recommend using a password generator built-in in Redis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each Redis user must be protected by a strong password. We recommend using the password generator built into Redis.
```

To generate password connect to a Redis instance and call:

```
ACL GENPASS
```

> or use OpenSSL if you have it installed on your machine

Reviewer: When do we recommend using OpenSSL vs. `ACL GENPASS`?

Author: So this I think is the tricky one. Redis documentation recommends using `ACL GENPASS` to generate password. The problem with this is that you need a Redis running to run that command, so it's not the best advice when you're reading a guide on how to setup a Redis cluster and you're at the beginning, but I wanted to mention it somehow that Redis has such option (I don't mind removing it if you think it's confusing). The best idea that I have is to use OpenSSL to generate password, as I'd assume that now everyone knows how to create a "good password".

@r0mant @smallinsky Any objections?

Reviewer 2: no, I think that mentioning `ACL GENPASS` if fine.

```shell
openssl rand -hex 32
```

> This command generates a password like that `0a49c95a25b0f92787d07a5b6bdc1a25b3a2130a1b338ec524f1b5dcd708bc65`.

Reviewer: I'm not sure we need this line.

> Create `users.acl` file with users. File defines Redis users, passwords required to log in as a given user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `users.acl` file, which defines users for your Redis deployment, passwords required to log in as a given user
```

> and sets of Redis ACL rules. Redis allows providing passwords as a plain text or SHA256 checksum version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
, and sets of ACL rules. Redis allows you to provide passwords in plaintext or an SHA256 checksum.
```

> We strongly recommend to use SHA256 checksum instead of plain text password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We strongly recommend using SHA256 checksums instead of plaintext passwords.
```

> 

Reviewer: I think we should give an example of a command to use for creating an SHA256 checksum of a password.

Author: Added

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Standalone">
    ```text
    user alice on #57639ed88a85996453555f22f5aa4147b4c9614056585d931e5d976f610651e9 allcommands allkeys
    user default off
    ```

>     For more ACL examples refer to [Redis documentation](https://redis.io/topics/acl).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For more ACL examples refer to the [Redis documentation](https://redis.io/topics/acl).
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Cluster">
    Redis in Cluster mode requires a special user created on master nodes to enable master-replica communication.
    ```text
    user alice on #57639ed88a85996453555f22f5aa4147b4c9614056585d931e5d976f610651e9 allcommands allkeys
    user replica-user on #42a9798b99d4afcec9995e47a1d246b98ebc96be7a732323eee39d924006ee1d &* -@all +replconf +ping +psync
    user default off
    ```

>     For more ACL examples refer to Redis documentation: [ACL](https://redis.io/topics/acl), [ACL rules for replicas](https://redis.io/topics/acl#acl-rules-for-sentinel-and-replicas).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For more ACL examples refer to the Redis documentation: [ACL](https://redis.io/topics/acl), [ACL rules for replicas](https://redis.io/topics/acl#acl-rules-for-sentinel-and-replicas).
```

Reviewer: One link is to a guide, and another is to a section within the same guide. Should we just include the section link?

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

<Admonition type="warning">

>   It's very important to either disable or protect with password the `default` user. Otherwise, everyone with access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It's very important to either disable or protect with a password the `default` user. Otherwise, everyone with access
```

  to the database can login as the `default` user which by default has administrator privileges.
</Admonition>

## Step 4/5

### Set up mutual TLS

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/tctl-auth-sign.mdx!)

Create the secrets:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Standalone">
    When connecting to standalone Redis, sign the certificate for the hostname over
    which Teleport will be connecting to it.

    For example, if your Redis server is accessible at `redis.example.com`
    hostname, run:

    ```code

>     $ tctl auth sign --format=redis --host=redis.example.com --out=server --ttl=2190h

Reviewer 3: Any reason we default to 3 months? Am I correct in thinking that after 3 months the Redis integration would no longer work.

Author: @benarent It requires you to generate a new cert, but we're using the same value in all our DB integrations, example from Mongo https://goteleport.com/docs/ver/9.0/database-access/guides/mysql-self-hosted/
If we want to change it I think we should create a separate issue and change the ttl for all integrations.

@r0mant @smallinsky Any comments?

Reviewer 2: Not sure why `2190h` was picked but agree that If we want to change that we should do this be a separate PR where values for all DBs will be updated.

    ```

    (!docs/pages/includes/database-access/ttl-note.mdx!)

>     The command will create three files: `server.cas` with Teleport's certificate

Author: Done

    authority, `server.key` with generated private key and `server.crt` with generated user certificate. You will
    need these files to enable mutual TLS on your Redis server.
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Cluster">

>     When connecting to a Redis Cluster, sign certificates for each member

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    When connecting to Redis Cluster, sign certificates for each member
```
since Redis Cluster is the product name

>     using the hostnames and the IP they're accessible at.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    using their hostnames and IP addresses.
```

    For example, if the first member is accessible at `redis1.example.com` with IP `10.0.1` and
    the second at `redis2.example.com` with IP `10.0.0.2`, run:

    ```code
    $ tctl auth sign --format=redis --host=redis1.example.com,10.0.0.1 --out=redis1 --ttl=2190h
    $ tctl auth sign --format=redis --host=redis2.example.com,10.0.0.2 --out=redis2 --ttl=2190h
    ```

    (!docs/pages/includes/database-access/ttl-note.mdx!)

>     The command will create three files: `server.cas` with Teleport's certificate

Reviewer: Same comment as above re: reformatting this paragraph as a bulleted list.

    need these files to enable mutual TLS on your Redis server.
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/rotation-note.mdx!)

Use the generated secrets to enable mutual TLS in your `redis.conf` configuration
file and restart the database:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Standalone">
    ```ini
    tls-port 6379
    port 0

    aclfile /path/to/users.acl

    tls-ca-cert-file /path/to/server.cas
    tls-cert-file /path/to/server.crt
    tls-key-file /path/to/server.key
    tls-protocols "TLSv1.2 TLSv1.3"
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Cluster">
    ```ini
    tls-port 7001
    port 0

    cluster-enabled yes

    tls-replication yes
    tls-cluster yes

    aclfile /path/to/users.acl

    masterauth GENERATED_STRONG_PASSWORD
    masteruser replica-user

    tls-cert-file /usr/local/etc/redis/certs/server.crt
    tls-key-file /usr/local/etc/redis/certs/server.key
    tls-ca-cert-file /usr/local/etc/redis/certs/server.cas
    tls-protocols "TLSv1.2 TLSv1.3"
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Once mutual TLS has been enabled, you will no longer be able to connect to

> the cluster without providing a valid client certificate. You can use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the cluster without providing a valid client certificate. You can use the
```

`tls-auth-clients optional` setting to allow connections
from clients that do not present a certificate.

> See [Configure TLS/SSL](https://redis.io/topics/encryption)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [TLS Support](https://redis.io/topics/encryption)
```
Using the name of the linked docs page

> in Redis documentation for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the Redis documentation for more details.
```

<Admonition type="note" title="Create Redis Cluster">

>   When you're configuring Redis Cluster you need to create the cluster using `redis-cli`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When you're configuring Redis Cluster you need to create the cluster using `redis-cli`.
```

>   `redis-cli --cluster create` accepts only IP addresses, so the

Reviewer: Looks like the rest of this sentence is cut off.

Author: Yes, my bad. Thx

>   Use below command to create the cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Use the following command to create the cluster:
```

  ```shell
  export REDISCLI_AUTH=STRONG_GENERATED_PASSWORD
  export CERTS_DIR=/path/to/certs/

  redis-cli --user alice --cluster-replicas 1 --tls --cluster-yes \
  --cluster create ${IP1}:7001 ${IP2}:7002 ${IP3}:7003 ${IP4}:7004 ${IP5}:7005 ${IP6}:7006 \
  --cacert ${CERTS_DIR}/server.cas --key ${CERTS_DIR}/server.key --cert ${CERTS_DIR}/server.crt
  ```

</Admonition>

<Admonition type="note" title="Redis Cluster Only">

>   To enable Redis cluster mode in Teleport add `mode=cluster` parameter to connection uri in teleport config file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  To enable Redis cluster mode in Teleport, add the `mode=cluster` parameter to the connection URI in your Teleport config file.
```

>   ```yaml

Reviewer: Should we make it explicit that this is on your database agent Node?

Author: I'm not sure about that. Now when I think about it, there is also a way to create a DB config with `tctl`, so the config file is not needed at all (you still need the `mode=cluster` tho).

@smallinsky @r0mant Suggestions?

Reviewer 4: I would just say "in your Teleport Database Service config file" above.

  databases:
    - name: "redis-cluster"
      uri: "rediss://redis.example.com:6379?mode=cluster"
  ```

</Admonition>

## Step 5/5. Connect

Log into your Teleport cluster and see available databases:

```code

> $ tsh login --proxy=teleport.example.com --user=alice

Reviewer: Let's make this a Tabs component for "Self-Hosted" and "Teleport Cloud," where for Cloud, `--proxy` is set to `mytenant.teleport.sh`.

Author: Done.

$ tsh db ls
# Name          Description     Labels
# ------------- --------------- --------
# example-redis Example Redis env=dev
```

To connect to a particular database instance, first retrieve its certificate

> using `tsh db login` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using the `tsh db login` command:
```

```code
$ tsh db login example-redis
```

<Admonition type="tip" title="Tip">
  You can be logged into multiple databases simultaneously.
</Admonition>

You can optionally specify the database name and the user to use by default
when connecting to the database instance:

```code
$ tsh db login --db-user=alice example-redis
```

<Admonition type="note" title="Note">

>   If flag `--db-user` is not provided Teleport logs in as the `default` user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If flag `--db-user` is not provided, Teleport logs in as the `default` user.
```

</Admonition>

Once logged in, connect to the database:

```code
$ tsh db connect example-redis
```

<Admonition type="note" title="Note">
  The `redis-cli` command-line client should be available in the system `PATH` in order to be
  able to connect.
</Admonition>

Now you can log in as the previously created user using the below command:

```
AUTH alice STRONG_GENERATED_PASSWORD
```

To log out of the database and remove credentials:

```code
# Remove credentials for a particular database instance.
$ tsh db logout example-redis
# Remove credentials for all database instances.
$ tsh db logout
```

### Supported Redis commands

  <Tabs>
    <TabItem label="Standalone">

>       Redis in standalone mode doesn't support below commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Redis in standalone mode doesn't support the commands below.
```

>       - HELLO

Reviewer: Should we use code style for these commands?

Author: Added.

      - PUNSUBSCRIBE
      - SSUBSCRIBE
      - SUNSUBSCRIBE

>       If one of the listed commands is called Teleport returns `ERR Teleport: not supported by Teleport` error.

Reviewer: Let's add this to the paragraph before the list of commands so readers can have all the context they need first.

Author: Good idea, done.

    </TabItem>
    <TabItem label="Cluster">

      Redis in cluster mode doesn't support below commands:

      - ACL
      - ASKING
      - CLIENT
      - CLUSTER
      - CONFIG
      - DEBUG
      - EXEC
      - HELLO
      - INFO
      - LATENCY
      - MEMORY
      - MIGRATE
      - MODULE
      - MONITOR
      - MULTI
      - PFDEBUG
      - PFSELFTEST
      - PSUBSCRIBE
      - PSYNC
      - PUNSUBSCRIBE
      - PUNSUBSCRIBE
      - READONLY
      - READWRITE
      - REPLCONF
      - REPLICAOF
      - ROLE
      - SCAN
      - SCRIPT DEBUG
      - SCRIPT KILL
      - SHUTDOWN
      - SLAVEOF
      - SLOWLOG
      - SSUBSCRIBE
      - SUNSUBSCRIBE
      - SYNC
      - TIME
      - WAIT
      - WATCH

>       If one of the listed commands above is called Teleport returns `ERR Teleport: command not supported` error.

Reviewer: Since this is a long list, we should put this sentence before it so readers have all the context and don't accidentally skip this information.

Author: Done

      Teleport also adds additional processing to:

>       - DBSIZE - sends the query to all nodes and returns the number of keys in the whole cluster.

Reviewer: I think this list would be easier to read as a table

Author: Changed

    cluster-enabled yes

    tls-replication yes
    tls-cluster yes

    aclfile /path/to/users.acl

    masterauth GENERATED_STRONG_PASSWORD
    masteruser replica-user

    tls-cert-file /usr/local/etc/redis/certs/server.crt
    tls-key-file /usr/local/etc/redis/certs/server.key
    tls-ca-cert-file /usr/local/etc/redis/certs/server.cas
    tls-protocols "TLSv1.2 TLSv1.3"
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Once mutual TLS has been enabled, you will no longer be able to connect to
the cluster without providing a valid client certificate. You can use the
`tls-auth-clients optional` setting to allow connections
from clients that do not present a certificate.

See [TLS Support](https://redis.io/topics/encryption)
in the Redis documentation for more details.

<Admonition type="note" title="Create Redis Cluster">
  When you're configuring Redis Cluster you need to create the cluster using `redis-cli`.

  Use the following command to create the cluster. Please note `redis-cli --cluster create` accepts only IP addresses.

  ```shell
  export REDISCLI_AUTH=STRONG_GENERATED_PASSWORD
  export CERTS_DIR=/path/to/certs/

  redis-cli --user alice --cluster-replicas 1 --tls --cluster-yes \

>   --cluster create ${IP1}:7001 ${IP2}:7002 ${IP3}:7003 ${IP4}:7004 ${IP5}:7005 ${IP6}:7006 \

Author: I agree, but I've got no better idea rather than add a note with something like "export your Redis IPs as environment variables IP1...IP6". Do you think that would help or for example using some "fake" IPs in this case make more sense?

---
title: Database Access with Redis
description: How to configure Teleport Database Access with Redis.
---

<Details
  title="Version warning"
  opened={true}
  scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}
  scopeOnly={true}
  min="9.0"
>
  Database access for Redis is available starting from Teleport `9.0`.
</Details>

This guide will help you to:

- Install and configure Teleport.

> - Configure mutual TLS authentication between Teleport and your Redis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Configure mutual TLS authentication between Teleport and Redis.
```

- Connect to Redis through Teleport.

## Prerequisites

- Teleport version `9.0` or newer.
- Redis (standalone or cluster) version `6.0` or newer.
- `redis-cli` installed and added to your system's `PATH` environment variable.

<Admonition type="note" title="Note">

>   Redis `7.0` and RESP3 (REdis Serialization Protocol) are currently not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Redis `7.0` and RESP3 (Redis Serialization Protocol) are currently not supported.
```

Reviewer: We can leave this the way it is 👍

</Admonition>

## Step 1/5. Set up Teleport Auth and Proxy

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/start-auth-proxy.mdx!)

## Step 2/5. Create a Teleport user

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/create-user.mdx!)

## Step 3/5. Create Redis users

> Each Redis user must be protected by a strong password. We recommend using OpenSSL to generate them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each Redis user must be protected by a strong password. We recommend using OpenSSL to generate passwords:
```

```shell
openssl rand -hex 32
```

  <Admonition type="note">

> If you have access to Redis you can also generate password by using the below command from the Redis console:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have access to Redis you can also generate a password by using the below command from the Redis console:
```

```
ACL GENPASS
```
  </Admonition>

> Create a `users.acl` file, which defines users for your Redis deployment, passwords required to log in as a given user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `users.acl` file, which defines users for your Redis deployment, passwords required to log in as a given user,
```
The comma is rendering with a space before it.

> , and sets of ACL rules. Redis allows you to provide passwords in plaintext or an SHA256 hash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 and sets of ACL rules. Redis allows you to provide passwords in plaintext or an SHA256 hash.
```

> We strongly recommend using SHA256 hash instead of plaintext passwords.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We strongly recommend using an SHA256 hash instead of plaintext passwords.
```

> You can use the below command to generate SHA256 hash from a password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the command below to generate an SHA256 hash from a password.
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Cluster">
Redis in cluster mode requires a special user created on leader nodes to enable leader-follower communication.
    ```text
    user alice on #57639ed88a85996453555f22f5aa4147b4c9614056585d931e5d976f610651e9 allcommands allkeys
    user replica-user on #42a9798b99d4afcec9995e47a1d246b98ebc96be7a732323eee39d924006ee1d &* -@all +replconf +ping +psync
    user default off
    ```

    For more ACL examples refer to the Redis documentation: [ACL](https://redis.io/topics/acl), [ACL rules for replicas](https://redis.io/topics/acl#acl-rules-for-sentinel-and-replicas).
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

<Admonition type="warning">
  It's very important to either disable or protect with a password the `default` user. Otherwise, everyone with access
  to the database can log in as the `default` user, which by default has administrator privileges.
</Admonition>

## Step 4/5. Set up mutual TLS

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/tctl-auth-sign.mdx!)

Create the secrets:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Standalone">
    When connecting to standalone Redis, sign the certificate for the hostname over
    which Teleport will be connecting to it.

>     For example, if your Redis server is accessible at `redis.example.com`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For example, if your Redis server is accessible at `redis.example.com`,
```

> , run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 run:
```
Same issue re: a space being added before the comma as earlier

    ```code
    $ tctl auth sign --format=redis --host=redis.example.com --out=server --ttl=2190h
    ```

    (!docs/pages/includes/database-access/ttl-note.mdx!)

    The command will create three files:
    - `server.cas` with Teleport's certificate authority

>     - `server.key` with generated private key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `server.key` with a generated private key
```

>     - `server.crt` with generated user certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `server.crt` with a generated user certificate
```

>     You will need these files to enable mutual TLS on your Redis server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You will need these files to enable mutual TLS on your Redis server.
```
This should be below the list.

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Cluster">
    When connecting to Redis Cluster, sign certificates for each member
    using their hostnames and IP addresses.

    For example, if the first member is accessible at `redis1.example.com` with IP `10.0.0.1` and
    the second at `redis2.example.com` with IP `10.0.0.2`, run:

    ```code
    $ tctl auth sign --format=redis --host=redis1.example.com,10.0.0.1 --out=redis1 --ttl=2190h
    $ tctl auth sign --format=redis --host=redis2.example.com,10.0.0.2 --out=redis2 --ttl=2190h
    ```

    (!docs/pages/includes/database-access/ttl-note.mdx!)

    The command will create three files:
    - `server.cas` with Teleport's certificate authority

>     - `server.key` with generated private key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `server.key` with a generated private key
```

>     - `server.crt` with generated user certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `server.crt` with a generated user certificate
```

>     You will need these files to enable mutual TLS on your Redis server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You will need these files to enable mutual TLS on your Redis server.
```
Moving this below the list

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Standalone">
    ```ini
    tls-port 6379
    port 0

    aclfile /path/to/users.acl

    tls-ca-cert-file /path/to/server.cas
    tls-cert-file /path/to/server.crt
    tls-key-file /path/to/server.key
    tls-protocols "TLSv1.2 TLSv1.3"
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Cluster">
    ```ini
    tls-port 7001
    port 0

    cluster-enabled yes

    tls-replication yes
    tls-cluster yes

    aclfile /path/to/users.acl

    masterauth GENERATED_STRONG_PASSWORD
    masteruser replica-user

    tls-cert-file /usr/local/etc/redis/certs/server.crt
    tls-key-file /usr/local/etc/redis/certs/server.key
    tls-ca-cert-file /usr/local/etc/redis/certs/server.cas
    tls-protocols "TLSv1.2 TLSv1.3"
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Once mutual TLS has been enabled, you will no longer be able to connect to
the cluster without providing a valid client certificate. You can use the
`tls-auth-clients optional` setting to allow connections
from clients that do not present a certificate.

See [TLS Support](https://redis.io/topics/encryption)
in the Redis documentation for more details.

<Admonition type="note" title="Create Redis Cluster">

>   When you're configuring Redis Cluster you need to create the cluster using `redis-cli`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When you're configuring Redis Cluster to use the TLS credentials we generated earlier, you need to create the cluster using `redis-cli`.
```
It took me a second to realize why this Admonition was being included here. I suggested linking it to the preceding text more strongly.

Reviewer: That sounds good to me!

  --cacert ${CERTS_DIR}/server.cas --key ${CERTS_DIR}/server.key --cert ${CERTS_DIR}/server.crt
  ```

</Admonition>

<Admonition type="note" title="Redis Cluster Only">

  To enable Redis cluster mode in Teleport, add the `mode=cluster` parameter to the connection URI in
  your Teleport Database Service config file.

  ```yaml
  databases:
    - name: "redis-cluster"
      uri: "rediss://redis.example.com:6379?mode=cluster"
  ```

</Admonition>

## Step 5/5. Connect

Log into your Teleport cluster and see available databases:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem scope={["enterprise", "oss"]} label="Self Hosted">
    ```code
    $ tsh login --proxy=teleport.example.com --user=alice
    $ tsh db ls
    # Name          Description     Labels
    # ------------- --------------- --------
    # example-redis Example Redis   env=dev
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem scope={["cloud"]} label="Cloud">
    ```code
    $ tsh login --proxy=mytenant.teleport.sh --user=alice
    $ tsh db ls
    # Name          Description     Labels
    # ------------- --------------- --------
    # example-redis Example Redis   env=dev
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

> To connect to a particular database instance, first retrieve its certificate

Reviewer: From here until the "Supported Redis commands" header, nearly every line appears to be another box, which makes this part of the guide slightly hard to read. I think we can remove the `<Admonition></Admonition>` tags from the tip and the two notes while preserving the text as regular body text.

Author: I personally think that the current version is hard to follow and it's easy to miss a step as there are many "Only Redis Cluster" blocks. What do you think about splitting this guide into two: Redis and Redis Cluster as a separate pages?

Reviewer: That sounds good to me! What do you think, @r0mant @smallinsky?

<Admonition type="tip" title="Tip">
  You can be logged into multiple databases simultaneously.
</Admonition>

You can optionally specify the database name and the user to use by default
when connecting to the database instance:

```code
$ tsh db login --db-user=alice example-redis
```

<Admonition type="note" title="Note">
  If flag `--db-user` is not provided, Teleport logs in as the `default` user.
</Admonition>

Once logged in, connect to the database:

```code
$ tsh db connect example-redis
```

<Admonition type="note" title="Note">
  The `redis-cli` command-line client should be available in the system `PATH` in order to be
  able to connect.
</Admonition>

Now you can log in as the previously created user using the below command:

```
AUTH alice STRONG_GENERATED_PASSWORD
```

To log out of the database and remove credentials:

```code
# Remove credentials for a particular database instance.
$ tsh db logout example-redis
# Remove credentials for all database instances.
$ tsh db logout
```

### Supported Redis commands

  <Tabs>
    <TabItem label="Standalone">

      Redis in standalone mode doesn't support the commands below. If one of the listed commands is called Teleport

>       returns `ERR Teleport: not supported by Teleport` error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      returns the `ERR Teleport: not supported by Teleport` error.
```

      - `HELLO`
      - `PUNSUBSCRIBE`
      - `SSUBSCRIBE`
      - `SUNSUBSCRIBE`

    </TabItem>
    <TabItem label="Cluster">

      Redis in cluster mode doesn't support below commands. If one of the listed commands above is called Teleport

>       returns `ERR Teleport: command not supported` error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      returns the `ERR Teleport: command not supported` error.
```
